Added hardware monitoring utility (#19)
neptune-ai/scale-examples: utils/monitoring_tools/hardware_monitoring/README.md

> # Neptune Hardware Monitoring

Reviewer: Forgot to mention: In general, we use sentence case in headings (only capitalize words if they should be capitalized anywhere)

> <div align="center">

Reviewer: The centered tiny badge looks a bit off

Author: Yeah, I felt the same. Do you recommend removing it altogether, or have a better design in mind?

- Made `pynvml` and `torch` optional dependencies.
- Added process memory, threads, and file descriptors metrics.
- Updated default namespace to `runtime` from `system`.
- Removed `node_rank` from metric namespaces.
- Improved console logging.

**v0.1.0** (2025-03-27)
- Initial release

---

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+
- [Neptune](https://scale.neptune.ai/) account and API token
- `neptune-scale` Python library installed (`pip install neptune-scale`)
- (Optional, for device detection) `torch` (PyTorch)
- (Optional, for GPU metrics) NVIDIA GPU and drivers
- (Optional, for GPU monitoring) `pynvml` (`pip install nvidia-ml-py`)

---

## Instructions

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install neptune-scale

   # For GPU monitoring if using NVIDIA GPUs:
   pip install -U nvidia-ml-py<13.0.0
   ```

2. **Set up Neptune:**
   - Set your Neptune API token and project as environment variables:
     ```bash
     export NEPTUNE_API_TOKEN=your_token
     export NEPTUNE_PROJECT=your_workspace/your_project
     ```

3. Download and place `neptune_hardware_monitoring.py` in your project directory.

> 4. **Integrate the monitor in your script:**  

Reviewer: "the monitor"?

   - Using a context manager:
    ```python
    from neptune_scale import Run
    from neptune_hardware_monitoring import SystemMetricsMonitor

>     run = Run()

Reviewer: Let's mention `experiment_name` here and on line 75, since it's best practice?

    ```python
    from neptune_scale import Run
    from neptune_hardware_monitoring import SystemMetricsMonitor

    run = Run()
    monitor = SystemMetricsMonitor(run=run)

    monitor.start()
    # Your training or workload code here
    monitor.stop()
    ```

5. **Metrics will be logged to Neptune automatically** under the specified namespace.

## API Reference

```python
class SystemMetricsMonitor(
    run: Run,
    sampling_rate: float = 5.0,
    namespace: str = "runtime",
)
```
- **run**: Neptune Run object for logging metrics.
- **sampling_rate**: How often to sample metrics (in seconds). Default is `5.0`.
- **namespace**: [Namespace](https://docs.neptune.ai/namespaces_and_attributes/) where the metrics will be logged in the Neptune run. Default is `"runtime"`.

---

## Caveats

- **GPU monitoring requires `pynvml` and a compatible NVIDIA GPU.** If not available, GPU metrics are skipped and a warning is shown.
- **File descriptor metrics** are only available on Unix-like systems.
- **Each process logs its own metrics.** In multi-process scenarios when logging to the same Neptune run, ensure that each process uses a different `namespace`.

---

## Example Output

> Details and metrics are logged to Neptune in a structured namespace, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Details and metrics are logged to Neptune in a structured namespace. Example:
```

```
runtime/details/gpu/name/0
runtime/details/gpu_num
runtime/monitoring/cpu/percent
runtime/monitoring/memory/virtual_used_GB
runtime/monitoring/gpu/0/memory_used_GB
runtime/monitoring/process/rss_memory_MB
...
```

[![Explore in Neptune](https://neptune.ai/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/neptune-badge.svg)](https://scale.neptune.ai/o/examples/org/showcase/runs/details?viewId=9f113328-75aa-4c61-9aa8-5bbdffa90879&detailsTab=attributes&runIdentificationKey=hardware_monitoring&type=experiment&compare=uiR6bnResm5Dc79uAlyMySpGVJXsCp6medoKxSlVtJGQ&path=runtime%2F)
---

> Create [custom dashboards](https://docs.neptune.ai/custom_dashboard) to visualize all important hardware metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To visualize all important hardware metrics, create [custom dashboards](https://docs.neptune.ai/custom_dashboard).
```

> __Example dashboard__: [![Explore in Neptune](https://neptune.ai/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/neptune-badge.svg)](https://scale.neptune.ai/o/examples/org/showcase/runs/details?viewId=9f113328-75aa-4c61-9aa8-5bbdffa90879&detailsTab=dashboard&dashboardId=9f11330c-e4ff-413a-9faa-9e10e5b3f7ee&runIdentificationKey=hardware_monitoring&type=experiment&compare=uiR6bnResm5Dc79uAlyMySpGVJXsCp6medoKxSlVtJGQ)

Reviewer: The badge looks weird here.

Author: Same as the top one. Do I remove the badge altogether and use just hyperlinked texts?

Reviewer: Sounds good
